PS-7633 Document parallel_dblwr_encrypt becoming a dummy system varia… (#4241)
percona/percona-server: doc/source/security/encrypting-doublewrite-buffers.rst

Encrypting Doublewrite Buffers
=======================================================================

A summary of Doublewrite buffer and Doublewrite buffer encryption changes:

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{5cm}|p{11cm}|

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - |Percona Server| Versions
     - Doublewrite Buffer and Doublewrite Buffer Encryption Implementation
   * - Percona-Server-8.0.12-1.alpha to Percona-Server-8.0.19-10 inclusive
     - |Percona Server| had its own implementation of the parallel doublewrite buffer which was enabled by setting the :variable:`innodb_parallel_doublewrite_path` variable.

       Enabling the :variable:`innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt` controlled whether the parallel

>        doublewrite pages were encrypted or not. The doublewrite buffer pages were located in the system tablespace (ibdata1). The system tablespace itself could be encrypted by setting :variable:`innodb_sys_tablespace_encrypt`, which also encrypted the  doublewrite buffer pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       doublewrite pages were encrypted or not. In case parallel doublewrite buffer was disabled (:variable:`innodb_parallel_doublewrite_path` was set to empty string), the doublewrite buffer pages were located in the system tablespace (ibdata1). The system tablespace itself could be encrypted by setting :variable:`innodb_sys_tablespace_encrypt`, which also encrypted the  doublewrite buffer pages.
```

Author: Updated.

       encryption at this time, so Percona reimplemented parallel doublewrite
       buffer encryption on top of the |MySQL| parallel doublewrite buffer
       implementation. Percona preserved the meaning and
       functionality of the :variable:`innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt` variable.
   * - Percona Server from Percona-Server-8.0.23-14
     - |MySQL| 8.0.23 implemented its own version of `parallel doublewrite encryption <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-data-encryption.html#innodb-doublewrite-file-encryption)>`__.
       Pages that belong to encrypted tablespaces are also written into the
       doublewrite buffer in an encrypted form. Percona's
       implementation was reverted and :variable:`innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt` is deprecated.

For |Percona Server| versions below |Percona Server| version 8.0.23-14, |Percona| encrypts the ``doublewrite buffer`` using :variable:`innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt`.

 .. variable:: innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt

    :deprecated: Percona-Server 8.0.23-14
    :cli: ``--innodb-parallel-dblwr-encrypt``
    :dyn: Yes
    :scope: Global
    :vartype: Boolean
    :default: ``OFF``

> Enables the encryption of doublewrite buffer pages. The encryption uses
> the key of the tablespace where the doublewrite buffer is implemented. Encrypted tablespace pages are written as encrypted in the
> doublewrite buffer using their respective tablespace keys. Unencrypted tablespace pages are not encrypted in the
> doublewrite buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This variable used to control whether parallel doublewrite buffer pages were encrypted or not.
The encryption used the key of the tablespace to which the page belong.
Starting from |Percona Server| 8.0.23-14, regardless of the value of this variable, pages from encrypted tablespaces are always written to the doublewrite buffer as encrypted, whereas pages from unencrypted tablespaces are always written unencrypted.
```

Author: Updated.

=======================================================================

As of |Percona Server| 8.0.20-11, the Percona version of the

> doublewrite buffer is replaced with the `MySQL implementation <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-doublewrite-buffer.html>`_.

Reviewer: @patrickbirch I would put the full summary here:
1. **Percona Server from the very first 8.0 release `Percona-Server-8.0.12-1.alpha` till `Percona-Server-8.0.19-10` inclusive**
Percona had its own implementation of parallel doublewrite buffer (at that moment could be enabled by setting `innodb_parallel_doublewrite_path`).
In case it was enabled, `innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt` was used to control whether parallel doublewrite pages should be encrypted or not.
In case it was disabled, doublewrite buffer pages were located in the system tablespace (`ibdata1`). System tablespace itself could be encrypted by setting `innodb_sys_tablespace_encrypt` which in turn caused doublewrite buffer pages to be encrypted as well.
2. **Percona Server from `Percona-Server-8.0.20-11` till `Percona-Server-8.0.22-13` inclusive**
In MySQL Server 8.0.20 Oracle implemented its own parallel doublewrite buffer which is stored in external files (`#ib_16384_xxx.dblwr`) and never in the system tablespace and therefore Percona's implementation was reverted.
As the result, `innodb_parallel_doublewrite_path` became a no-op variable.
However, Oracle did not implement parallel doublewrite buffer encryption at that moment, so Percona had to re-implement parallel doublewrite buffer encryption on top of the new parallel doublewrite buffer implementation from Oracle. Percona preserved the meaning and functionality of the `innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt` variable.
3. **Percona Server from `Percona-Server-8.0.23-14`**
In MySQL 8.0.23 Oracle implemented its own version of Parallel doublewrite encryption (https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-data-encryption.html#innodb-doublewrite-file-encryption).
Pages that belong to encrypted tablespaces are also written into doublewrite buffer in encrypted form.
Therefore Percona's implementation was reverted and `innodb_parallel_dblwr_encrypt` became a no-op variable.

Author: Rewritten.
